---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2020-02-10"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, post the link to the #Kanthaus channel on slack and empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Have fun!
-->
- Date: 2020-02-10
- Facilitator: Bodhi
- Notary: Matthias
- Physical board caretaker: Lise
- Discussion timekeeper: Chandi
- Present: Matthias, Lise, Clara, Maxime, Tilmann, Bodhi, Anja, Chandi, Mika, Doug, Michal, Janina, Findus, Nathalie

----
<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. Last week review

##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room and append to water.csv and gas.csv in https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/tree/master/resourcesUsed, update the residence record (https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/blob/master/residenceRecord.csv) otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/pipeline_schedules and it will print to 
#kanthaus-residence -->

![usage graph](https://codi.kanthaus.online/uploads/upload_1ed5effe1ea0c64edf212478ed1d41a1.png)

- **Present:** 15.1 people / day ⬊  -1.43
- **Spent nights:** 106 nights
- **Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max):** 7 °C _(1.5 | 4.8 | 9.9 days before: 6.1 | 8.0 | 10.1 °C)_
- **Electricity usage:** ~6.95 € / day
- **Electricity efficiency:** ~46.0 ct / day*person
- **Gas usage:** 5.03 € / day _⬊ -0.5 €_
- **Gas efficiency:** 33.2 ct / day*person _⬈ -0.16 ct_
- **Water usage:** 3.11 € / day _⬊ -0.47 €_
- **Water efficiency:** 20.5 ct / day*person _⬈ -1.1 ct_

**Total costs per day and person:** ~1€


##### Done Expenses
<!-- Encourage people to enter their expenditures from Kanthaus money -->
- 40€ for Workshop vacuum cleaner filter + a few whiteboardmarkers because of minimum order amount (sorry - should have been cheaper, have noticed only after ordering that it first did not include taxes...)
- ~700€ welding machine and related tools and gas
- 328€ Carla Cargo bike parts
- 115€ steel parts for Carla Cargo and welding table

##### Income
<!-- Check the shoe in K20-0 (base is 30 €) and the donation box in the free shop in K22-0-3 -->
- 

##### Team updates
<!-- Project managers from teams defined during the MCM should report about the current situation -->
- Roof (Silvan, Tilmann): 
   - very wet! staircases also wet! :)
- Stuff (Bodhi, Matthias, Thore, chandi):
- rooms (nathalie, janina):

##### Other things that happened
- Sorting of Bauschutt
- Acroyoga
- FS Brunch
- drying rack for dirty laundry in dumpster kitchen
- amplifier fixed
- MOI sessions! for example: 
- re-reading constitution
- Sushi-making and eating
- (better) wifi in K22-2

### 2. People arriving and leaving
- **Monday:** 
- **Tuesday:** Thore comes back
- **Wednesday:** 
- **Thursday:** 
- **Friday:** Bodhi leaves late morning, findus leaves, clara leaves
- **Saturday:** 
- **Sunday:** Bodhi comes back late, chandi leaves until Wednesday, findus comes back, clara comes back
- **Any day:**
 
 
### 3. Evaluations and check-ins

_no evaluations during MoI_

### 4. Upcoming <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Weather forecast <!-- https://www.accuweather.com/en/de/wurzen/04808/weather-forecast/171287 -->: Stormy until wednesday, a bit of rain and windy every day. Not freezing at least...
- Monday
    <!-- skip this during MoI - 17:00 Knowledge sharing session, today's topic: *undecided* -->
    - 19:00 Women's choir 
    - 19:00 AcroYoga in Leipzig
- Tuesday
   - 14:30 short follow-up meet-up of position/evaluation-thinkers [Ja,ti,cl,li]
   - 16:00 - 18:00 Offener Dienstag [Anja, Stilgar?, Janina]
- Wednesday
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
    - 20:15 Badminton in Wurzen
- Thursday
    - 10:00 Power Hour [EVERYBODY]
    - 15:00 sharing event
- Friday
    <!--- 12:00 Market pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993 -->
    - 17:00 Next MOI week planning 
- Saturday
    - 13:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
- Sunday
    - 14:00 FFF meeting in cloud room
- Next Monday
    - CoMe facilitator: Doug

- to be scheduled:
    - MOI activities (Week overview: https://files.slack.com/files-pri/T0B6WCFM5-FSRKW5RPC/image.png)

### 5. Announcements
- [michal,nick] Trustroots hackweek 11.4.-19.4.
- [chandi] I worked out a proposal how our data can be resorted and separated: https://codi.kanthaus.online/data-restructure?view# would be happy about further suggestions! If no one raised resistance until 12:00 today I would start implementing it.
- [Bodhi] would like to do a building rouble tour this week!
- [matthias] last tuesday a person came by to repair their sewing machine. I told her that I am not an expert but Silvan might be back next week. She might call on tuesday. Silvan will not be back tomorrow, but next week.
- [Janina] midwife might call today , just tell her its ok that she comes

### 6. Changes to Governance
- None, but people should think about the proposals from the reading constitution session

### 7. Expense Requests
- [matthias] Miele Vacuum cleaner bags 30 for 18€ https://www.staubbeutel.de/Miele/Big-Cat-Dog-S-836-oxid-2/Economy-XL-30-STAUBSAUGERBEUTEL-MIELE-F-J-M-G-N.html
- [Bodhi] for about 30-40€ I would like to order at https://www.led-lampenladen.de and would get: 15 E27 to fill the long Girlanden-thing that silven found to acually use it at events, 12V lamps for the baby-bathroom, other lamps to exchange everything that is still non-led (Stiftlampen in office lamps for exapmle). Can go in the Postcode budget.


### 8. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc.)
- [Maxime] Inventaire hackweek April/may
    - discussion about it being very tight with other hackathons end of april
    - expect to be a few more people this time (maybe around 6 people?)
    - suggestion is early may, after foodsharing hackweek
    - maxime will get back with a concrete proposal
- [Lise] Jörg Wunderlich coming this week
    - I already asked in slack and there was no resistance. He'd like to come on wednesday or thursday and preferrably stay overnight. What do you think about having him in the deep session on Wednesday and what are general conditions?
    - discussion about inviting him for a 24 hour period maybe tuesday evening to wednesday evening
    - some concerns recording during a deep session, but this session will be held in small groups.
    - doug maybe calls him and we will see
- [Bodhi] K22 upper bathroom Spülkasten situation
    - we turn it off
    - Nathalie and doug want to look at it
    - If people find it with turned on eckventil, they are free to remove the panzerschlauch.
- [Lise] A friend of mine would like to visit me and kanthaus. He would also be happy to facilitate a pen&paper-game for us. He can come 28.02-01.03 or 06.-08.03. Bodhi would like to join but is only here in the first weekend. What do you think about that, does it count as community action? I would Also like to know who would be interested in playing pen&paper. He needs to know the number of players.
    - nobody of us knows the friend yet
    - we don't know which pen&paper yet (lise will ask)
    - Playing time would be ~1-1.5 days
    - No real concerns, just superslight from a few people. So we just do it
    - Lise gets back with more information
- [Nathalie] NDK and VHS want to make a workshop about SoLaWi. As an expert they invite Karl from Rote Beete. They ask if it could take place in Kanthaus and if someone wants to moderate. Do you think the yoga room is good for this purpose? About 15 persons expected.
    - if they offer to pay something, do we want to take it?
        - tell them about how we handle money with groups.
    - dates: 03.04 or 17.04
    - I [Nathalie] could imagine to do the moderation. Anyone else interested?
    - general feeling of it fitting well & enthusiasm, suggestion of yoga room
    - Suggestion of using the piano room, but that has some people having resistance.
- [findus] how much cocosdrink, soja-vanilla-drink, coffee (alpro), cocochoco drinks do we want?
    - suggestion: 1 pallette mixed with the 3 things, maybe slight focus on coconut drinks
    - concerns about storage, but feeling that there is easily enough space in the basement food storages
    - matthias and bodhi volunteered to carry it around
    - idea to spread to NDK and villa klug
- [findus] g1k5 meeting 3-5.4 in Kanthaus?
    - no resistance, happy to further support them
- [Nathalie]: 13-15.03 maybe foodsharing Festival meeting?
    - no resistance
- [nick] Foodsharing hackweek 25.4.-3.5.
    - [Doug] Was announced, and people are happy about it :)
    - Looking for house host in addition to Nick
    - Matthias is taking on the hosting duty now, but is not 100% sure to be here in that time. Janina & tilmann offered to take over.

### 9. Dinner lottery/food recommendation
Run lottery: https://kanthaus.gitlab.io/dinner-lottery/
<!-- Results to be copied on the physical board -->

### 10. For next week
Next CoMe facilitator, Doug: if elec. stats are still not working, they have to be entered manualy (the counter in the basement also shows the last 7d). Other stats should be working (as they are not dependant on the housebus/Grafana). [Bodhi]

