---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2019-03-25"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

- Date: 2019-03-25
- Facilitator: Tilmann
- Notary: Janina, Michal, Lise
- Present: Chandi, Anja, Talita, Silvan, Lise, Janina, Michal, Nathalie, Matthias, Thore, Findus, Doug, Clara

----
<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- **Monday:** Bodhi arrives
- **Tuesday:**
- **Wednesday:** Anja leaves, Talita leaves, Findus maybe leaves
- **Thursday:**
- **Friday:**
- **Saturday:**
- **Sunday:** Lise, Bodhi and Matthias leave for 2-3 weeks

### 2. Changes to Governance
none, but please lets collect ideas/problems :)
https://codi.im.kanthaus.online/constitution-change-brainstorming

### 3. Last week review
##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room and append to water.csv and gas.csv in https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/tree/master/resourcesUsed, update the residence record (https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/blob/master/residenceRecord.csv) otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/pipeline_schedules and it will print to #kanthaus-residence -->

- *Present:* 14.0 people / day ⬊  0.0
- *Spent nights:* 98 nights
- *Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max):* 2.2 | 9.6 | 22.7 °C _(7 days before: 3.4 | 7.7 | 15.1 °C)_
- *Electricity usage:* 4.09 € / day _⬊ -0.22 €_
- *Electricity efficiency:* 29.2 ct / day*person _⬈ -1.55 ct_
- *Gas usage:* 1.86 € / day _⬊ -1.48 €_
- *Gas efficiency:* 13.3 ct / day*person _⬈ -10.55 ct_
- *Water usage:* 3.76 € / day _⬈ +0.62 €_
- *Water efficiency:* 26.9 ct / day*person _⬊ +4.4 ct_

##### Income (please check the shoe and the ~~box~~ jar):
EUR 53

##### Things that happened
- The foodsharing at festivals season start meeting took place
- Matthias, Bodhi, Chandi, Findus and Clara participated in the next MOVE planning meeting in Kassel
- Janina and Lise moved the durable food back up to K22-1-1 and established a new system with rationing
- The scaffolding got built up completely and reaches up to the roof now
- Benji plastered the gaps between the bricks in the K20-0 staircase
- Nathalie emptied the free shop, sanded the big shelf and cleaned thoroughly - now only sorting needs to be done
- Lise, Nathalie and Janina wrote two funding applications and already sent one in
- Tilmann and Janina exchanged the mattress in the palm room with the nice one of Lise
- Bodhi and Lise sorted the bedsheets into closet number 3 in the communal closet
- Thore and Nathalie helped Frauke move a kitchen for one of her refugees
- The Chorfest took place in which Lise and Janina participated as singers and Doug attended
- Talita checkin with Doug and Lise

### 4. Evaluations and check-ins
- *Anja*
- *Findus*
- *Nathalie*

### 5. Upcoming <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
<!-- no scheduling tool for this week -->
- Weather forecast: 2-10 degrees and rainy until weekend, sunny and warmer from weekend on
- Monday
    - 16:00 Evaluation Anja
    - 19:00 Women's choir
    - 19:00 AcroYoga in Leipzig
- Tuesday
    - 10:00 move-in-brunch in Lise's garden (dress warmly)
    - 12:00 Gemök talk
    - 17:00 Repair Cafe (Matthias)
    - (17:30 Karrot call)
    - 19:00 Fairteiler (Janina, Anja)
    - 19:00 Auerworld-Stammtisch Leipzig
- Wednesday
    - 10:00 Wupphours
    - 17:00 Kaffeekränzchen (networking at Villa Klug)
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt via foodsharing.de https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=18626
- Thursday
    - 10:00 Power Hour
    - 15:00 Evaluation Nathalie
    - 19:30 Sharing circle
- Friday
    - 12:00 Market pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt via foodsharing.de https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=18626
- Saturday
- Sunday
- Next Monday
    - CoMe facilitator: Doug

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, updates, requests, etc) <!-- can also include discussions about cooking and heating -->
- [Lise] what about the scheduling tool....do we want to use in / in which way? It's not possible to propose something before coMe. What is the current plan @chandi?
    - The plan is the deploy it and have it always available. It just didn't work for this week. Chandi will announce when it's ready
- [Lise] invites you to a Kanthaus-Brunch in her new garden, combined with some carrying-work. Scheduled for Tuesday, proposed time 10:00.
    - Go there with KMW to bring some furniture and then have a nice housewarming there combined with breakfast.
- [Doug] Kanthaus logo. Proposals until next CoMe, voting until next-next CoMe :) https://ukuvota.world/#/app/66f7dbcc-5e15-5967-0119-cdeb4cc429d5/collect
    - [Lise] I'd love to learn how to design logos (want to have one for Wandel würzen)
- [Lise] Kanthaus becoming GEN-member? infos: https://www.gen-deutschland.de/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/GEN_Deutschland_Information_Mitgliedschaft.pdf
    - Vollmitglied (5-10€ per grown-up Kanthaus-member per year)
    - Lise thinks we fullfill all conditions and could benefit of the membership e.g. for networking meetings
    - Bodhi and Lise want to go to the spring meeting in June, therefore it'll be cool to go as members (we would pay less) and could present Kanthaus there
    - Lise will write her idea in slack
- [Silvan] Talk about the idea of "Stromfrei-Tag"
    - Needs to happen when Matthias is not here and when it's weekend.
    - Janina and Silvan will talk about it more and see how it could be done.
- [Lise] I'd like to progress the BUND group Wurzen for the BufDi-thing. One of the first steps: we need more members, which are located in Wurzen :) https://mitglied.bund.net/?wc=21730
    - It's 24€ per year and comes with no more obligations.
    - Update: application is sent, some projects in Kanthaus are now BUND-projects and will be advertised as such (e.g. free shop and repair cafe)
- [Lise] needs a host for the Kritpsy-group 12-14.04. Who can take over?
    - Doug would take on a third of the hosting.
    - Tilmann perceived them as quite self-sufficient and would help.
    - Clara will help if she's here.
    - Lise will write Jasmin
- [Lise] would like to have a table in her garden-house. Since the Table she brought is too big and fits perfectly in the kitchen here, she would like to get another one. Maybe the one in the snack-kitchen?
    - Lise will measure and make a list with tables which would fit and post it in slack
- [Tilmann] I removed the shower curtain because it was moldy. Problem is if the curtain doesn't dry properly, people leaving it folded after showering. On the other hand, we had it for over one year. What should we do?
    - Wash it and hang it back (Janina and Michal are interested in washing it, Janina will wash it.)
    - Find a new pavillion cover in our storage and use it [+1 bodhi, I would also take on this task]
    - No curtain
    - ...
- [matthias] roof terrace proposal (https://codi.im.kanthaus.online/roofterace)
    - Proposal is there but not measured yet.
    - Doug proposed to have an online discussion on this. Matthias will create an issue with more detailed information.
- [matthias] Who would be interested in roof patching Tuesday @ 8/9 am?
    - Matthias and Tilmann
- [Doug] proposes to 'alternate' unrelated come points from different people.
    - will be tested on the next CoMe
- [Doug] pallets in garden: to vk?
    - We go there on Wednesday anyways, it's a good opportunity to talk to them again or even bring the pallets there already.
- [matthias] oven / ceranfeld pickup in machern. When/how/who? (synergies?)
- [Janina] Earlier dinner times?
    - We'll try dinner at 6pm on every weekday.
    - Would be cool if the cooking team could be casually supported by people coming by. :)
