---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2019-09-23"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Have fun!
-->

- Date: 2019-09-23
- Facilitator: Matthias
- Notary:
- Physical board caretaker: Nathalie
- Present: Janina, Thore, Maxime, Max_yu, Nathalie, Lise, Tilmann, Silvan, Matthias

----
<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- **Monday:** Bodhi and Silvan leave
- **Tuesday:**
- **Wednesday:** Bodhi and Silvan come back
- **Thursday:** Max leaves towards end of week
- **Friday:**
- **Saturday:** Findus and Clara maybe come
- **Sunday:** Lise and Thore maybe leave

### 2. Changes to Governance
- none

### 3. Last week review

##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room and append to water.csv and gas.csv in https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/tree/master/resourcesUsed, update the residence record (https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/blob/master/residenceRecord.csv) otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/pipeline_schedules and it will print to #kanthaus-residence -->

- Present: 11.1 people / day ⬊  -3.57
- Spent nights: 78 nights
- Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max): 7.9 | 13.7 | 22.9 °C (7 days before: 10.8 | 17.1 | 25.3 °C)
- Electricity usage: 3.48 € / day ⬊ -0.54 €
- Electricity efficiency: 31.3 ct / day*person ⬊ +3.92 ct
- Solar intake: 1.1 € / day
- Water usage: 2.28 € / day ⬊ -1.08 €
- Water efficiency: 20.5 ct / day*person ⬈ -2.4 ct


##### Income
- 128€

##### MCM updates
<!-- Project managers from tasks defined during the MCM should report about the current situation -->
- Roof (Silvan, Tilmann): Silvan wrote an email to our architect, a slack channel has been created. The psychedelic room should be emptied soon, people have been contacted about their stuff there.
- Stuff (Bodhi, Matthias, Thore): talked about general and private stuff and how it might be put into different categories (regarding storage/usage requirements).
- Rooms (Janina, Nathalie): We created a folder and opened a channel. Will have first meeting this week.

##### Wupphour proposals
- tidy up the garden in preparation for the Sommerfest
- find some stuff to get rid of when Bodhi goes to the junkyard on Thursday

##### Things that happened
- We picked up stuff from Möbelfundus
- Tilmann and Findus sorted the food storage and current season
- the yoga room got cleared and cleaned
- Findus and Bodhi sanded the hipster room
- Almost all of us went to the Klimastreik in Leipzig
- Silvan, Raphaela and Janina went to Pödelwitz and helped with the yurt
- The first ever MCM took place
- There was a 2 hour sharing event on Saturday
- It was Clara's birthday and Matthias baked a cake
- FFF wanted to have another plenum at ours and we didn't hear them ring the doorbell :-()
- Bodhi and Matthias spent Saturday trying to reorganize our bookkeeping. Still a bit work to be done.
 
### 4. Evaluations and check-ins
- Max_yu [Matthias]

### 5. Upcoming <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Weather forecast <!-- https://www.accuweather.com/en/de/wurzen/04808/weather-forecast/171287 -->: quite okay weather, not too cold, but rainy on Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday.
- Monday
    - 19:00 Women's choir [Janina, Lise]
- Tuesday
    - 16:00 - 18:00 Offener Dienstag [Nathalie, Janina, Lise, Matthias]
- Wednesday
    - Lises birthday
    - 10:00 - 12:00 WuppHours
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt via foodsharing.de https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=18626
- Thursday
    - 10:00 Power Hour
    - 17:30 Sharing event (cloud room) [Lise]
- Friday
    - yellow bag waste
    - 12:00 Market pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt via foodsharing.de https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=18626
    - hopefully food bank pickup in Leipzig, maybe Clara's stuff pickup as well (needs more coordination)
- Saturday
    - 16:00 Kanthaus Sommerfest
- Sunday
- Next Monday
    - CoMe facilitator: Janina

#### To schedule

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, updates, requests, etc.)
- Request from NDK: participation at Open Space pestalozzi school 13.11
    - Thore and Lise might be interested. We'll talk about this again.
    - Last year it was very spontaneous, so there probably is no deadline soon.
- [nathalie] foodsharing Hackweek - Jo is motivated to organise one. possible dates?
    - General appreciation of the idea.
    - Better towards the end of November.
    - We should ask Nick and Chandi as well.
    - Nathalie will keep on doing communications fpr now.
- KH Sommerfest (see updates in last meeting minutes at #kanthaus-events)
    - last laundry on Wednesday, we will remove the laundry lines afterwards
    - Who would like to introduce themselves and give input to their projects?
        - e.g. Janina, Tilmann, Matthias are open for that
        - everybody who wants to contribute can write their input into #kanthaus-events
    - wood for fire?
        - there's a pile in front of K22. where the old pallets are.
    - crap in the garden: should we drive to the Recyclinghof this week or just hide it?
        - On Thursday Bodhi will go there with some help
- Lise asks if someone can imagine helping her to move stuff in her garden (carry things, drive KMW, drill holes in probably quite shitty walls)
    - could happen anytime during the week
    - would mean things from the psychedelic room to disappear into the garden and the nice bed to come back
    - part of wupphours maybe..? Lise will propose it on Wednesday again.
- [matthias]  Order bike parts for some hundred euros
    - tires (Schwalbe Marathon Plus Tour, 45€ per set) for some more bikes
    - lights (https://www.ebay.de/itm/LED-Fahrrad-Lampen-Set-Nabendynamo-75-Lux-Standlicht-Rucklicht-AXA-BLUELINE/173601496627 steady lights, 23€ per set) for some more used bikes
    - stands (let's see what we need - ~10euros per stand) for some more bikes
    - smaller parts depending on whats broken (5-50 euros for a few bikes)
- Desk in the garden should be placed somewhere inside before the rain
    - can be temporarily stored in the futon room until it can go into the hipster room
    - Thore and Maxime will take care of this
- [tilmann] Tear down scaffolding, part 2
    - do we need the scaffolding for now? -> probably not for any roof action
    - where to put it? -> K20 basement and shed, steel parts can even stay outside
    - why does it need to be torn down? -> because the wood is already quite bad and we want it to last
    - when do we need to do it the latest? -> November
- [silvan] KulturJurte
    - They hold an event and asked us if we want to participate. We could fill a slot in their program and/or just go there and enjoy their festival at heiter bis wolkig in Leipzig.
    - Silvan will answer them and maybe stop by there sometime this week.
- [matthias] hipster room floor
    - work still needed to be done: filling holes in the wood and oil the wood.
    - Lise is happy to work on it but doesn't want to buy material herself.
    - Matthias is happy to go to the Baumarkt.
    - Tilmann and Matthias discuss the way to go forward.
    - Tilmann will wait with attaching the sidebars until after the oiling took place.
- [maxime] Can we reattach the pull-up bar somewhere?
    - Tilmann points out that our wooden door frames get destroyed by the bar.
    - Matthias points out that the place where it was last had crumbling walls.
    - For now the scaffolding can be used. For the winter we hopefully find another solution.
    - The bed in the elephant room also seems to be an opportunity.

### 7. Water/Dinner lottery


### 8. For next week
- BUND wurzen, who feels associated? Meeting!