---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2019-03-11"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

- Date: 2019-03-11
- Facilitator: Matthias
- Notary: Lise
- Present: Tilmann, Janina, Lise, Chandi, Michal, Silvan, Matthias, Clara

<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- **Monday:** Talita arriving, Bodhi coming back
- **Tuesday:**
- **Wednesday:**
- **Thursday:** Lukas, Küppi & Jacob coming in late evening
- **Friday:** Michal & chandi leave for the weekend. Will be back next week. Up to 10 ppl of und Jetzt orga team will arrive, silvan will maybe leave for some days
- **Saturday:** Janina leaves until Monday
- **Sunday:** Lukas, Küppi & Jacob leaving, findus coming back?, undJetzt people will leave

### 2. Changes to Governance
none, but please lets collect ideas/problems :)
https://codi.im.kanthaus.online/constitution-change-brainstorming

### 3. Last week review
##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room and append to water.csv and gas.csv in https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/tree/master/resourcesUsed, otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/pipeline_schedules and it will print to #kanthaus-residence -->

- *Present:* 14.4 people / day ⬈ +2.14
- *Spent nights:* 101 nights
- *Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max):* 2.2 | 8.8 | 16.2 °C _(7 days before: 2.2 | 8.6 | 15.7 °C)_
- *Electricity usage:* 4.49 € / day _⬈ +0.29 €_
- *Electricity efficiency:* 31.1 ct / day*person _⬈ -3.08 ct_
- *Gas usage:* 3.29 € / day _⬈ +0.31 €_
- *Gas efficiency:* 22.8 ct / day*person _⬈ -1.46 ct_
- *Water usage:* 2.89 € / day _⬈ +0.6 €_
- *Water efficiency:* 20.0 ct / day*person _⬊ +1.43 ct

##### Income (please check the shoe and the ~~box~~ jar):
 - 174,68

##### Things that happened
- we got enough roof tiles for one of our roofs
- we had a meeting with an architect to find out how to continue renovating our houses
- we got a new kitchen (and are looking for a place to store it...)
- a new scheduling tool got developed
- janinas mum visited us and we had a lot of cake
- bodhis mum visited us
- silvans family visited us
- some of us participated at a choir concert

### 4. Evaluations and check-ins
- Findus, when she comes back.

### 5. Upcoming <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->

Lets try the new Scheduling tool: http://192.168.178.100:8080/
- Weather forecast: rainy, windy, coldy
- Monday
    - 19:00 Women's choir
    - 19:00 AcroYoga in Leipzig
- Tuesday
    - 17:00 Repair Cafe
    - 19:00 Fairteiler
- Wednesday
    - 10:00 Wupphours
    - 16:00 Sharing Event
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt via foodsharing.de https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=18626
- Thursday
    - 10:00 Power Hour
- Friday
    - 12:00 Market pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt via foodsharing.de https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=18626
- Saturday
- Sunday
- Next Monday
    - CoMe facilitator: Clara

#### To schedule


### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, updates, requests, etc) <!-- can also include discussions about cooking and heating -->
- [Doug] I would like to have been told my evaluation was delayed as soon as it happened. I propose we normally notify event organisers about delays as soon as possible.
- [chandi] Would buy a new money box like the old one (5-15€), any opinions?
    - Yes! Do it!
- [Lise] meeting for Where to put the kitchen, car has to be unloaded until tomorrow morning
    - attic K-22 (resistance matthias, windows have to be compressed & attic cleaned up, or tetris-style in between), dragon room / yoga room / freeshop storage (resistance janina, lise, chandi), attic K-20
    - hipster room: make a crappy, temporary floor there and store the kitchen there (Michal, Janina are motivated to help)
        - kitchen could be put now in the yoga room and stored very short there, while people are working in the hipster room
    - decision: Lise and Janina will play tetris on the K22 attic, Matthias, Chandi, Michal will help carrying
- [doug] Prefixes to usernames (E.g. Awesome or amazing) are a findability problem for me, making it more difficult to work online.
    - noted. chandi and janina changed their names :)
- [lise] undjetzt-orga-team, room-usage, etc.
    - cloud/dragon/sunstudio available
    - would be cool to have the piano room as living group
- conceptual dreaming, roadmap planning
    - scheduled.
    - (room planning) people with opinions please attend, get maybe clear about your priorities and be nice to each other :)
- [silvan] idea of makerspace with fixed time (maybe tuesday 15:00)
    - repair cafe includes this
    - silvan will write something for the website


### 7. For next week
