---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2020-02-24"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, post the link to the #Kanthaus channel on slack and empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Have fun!
-->
- Date: 2020-02-24
- Facilitator: Lise
- Notary: Lise, Doug
- Physical board caretaker: Thore
- Digital calendar caretaker: Doug
- Discussion timekeeper: Lise
- Present: Doug, Bodhi, Thore, Tilmann, Matthias, Janina, Mika, Silvan, Lise, Chandi, Maxime

----

<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. Last week review

##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room and append to water.csv in https://cloud.kanthaus.online/f/146415, update the residence record (https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/blob/master/residenceRecord.csv) otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-governance/pipeline_schedules and it will print to 
#kanthaus-residence -->

_Limited stats, as residence and previous week's electricity usage were maybe not correct_

![usage graph](https://codi.kanthaus.online/uploads/upload_d873eff6e9e0431a019fa8f23d32ca17.png)

- **Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max):** 7 °C _(2.7 | 7.8 | 13.6 days before: 2.0 | 7.5 | 16.8 °C)_
- **Electricity usage:** 7.44 € / day _
- **Gas usage:** 3.08 € / day _⬊ -1.17 €_
- **Water usage:** 2.81 € / day _⬈ +0.14 €_

**Cost per day**: 13.33€

##### Done Expenses
<!-- Encourage people to enter their expenditures from Kanthaus money -->
- €66.35 for dustmasks + parts (all 3M, all ordered by Doug w. personal money)
    - 2 * 7502 mask: €24,58 (arrive next week)
    - 2 * 3200 mask: $8.65 (arrive in ~1 month)
    - 10 * 603 platform: $15.99 (arrive in ~1 month)
    - 10 * 501 cover: $4.16 (arrive in ~1 month)
    - 40 * 5n11 filter: $16.28 (arrive in ~1 month)
- €2.50 for 1m * 75mm pipe for soap forming (Doug)
- 60€ for KMW cooler

##### Income
<!-- Check the shoe in K20-0 (base is 20 €) and the donation box in the free shop in K22-0-3 -->
- 200€

##### Team updates
<!-- Project managers from teams defined during the MCM should report about the current situation -->
- Roof (Silvan, Tilmann): 
   - Building week proposed from 23.-30.3 - let's have a meeting this week about tasks and sending out invitations
   1. [ ] Reply from architect [Silvan]
   2. [ ] Statiker comes
   3. [ ] Statiker report
- Stuff (Bodhi, Matthias, Thore, chandi):
   - meeting/session this friday about how to handle things around the workshops (stuff to be repaired, stuff to be sorted, etc. )
- rooms (nathalie, janina):

##### Other things that happened
- Dustmask info printed and inventory made [Doug]
- We got 8 cans with each 4,5kg of chicken-pasta-stew, zwieback and a bit of beet root in the hallway [lise]
- ~~We found out everyone hates sußholztee~~ [Doug] (joking!) -> not everyone likes it
- Summer Storage Sale to be planned [Bodhi/Doug]
- 3 new plant shelves! [Anja/Tilmann]
- Elektrowerkstatt shelving improvements! [Matthias]
- Boiler and useless pipes in sleep kitchen were removed [lise bodhi]
- awesome rap session (with gestures!)
- pizza party!
- social sauna with constructive outcome
- carrots were planted :)

### 2. People arriving and leaving
- **Monday:** Bodhi leaves, findus comes back
- **Tuesday:** 
- **Wednesday:** Bodhi comes back
- **Thursday:** 
- **Friday:** Maxel arrives, chandi leaves
- **Saturday:** 
- **Sunday:** chandi comes back
- **Any day:** Maxel leaves on monday
 
### 3. Evaluations and check-ins

_no evaluations during MoI_

- Anja, Michal, Findus and Janina coming up!

### 4. Upcoming <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Weather forecast <!-- https://www.accuweather.com/en/de/wurzen/04808/weather-forecast/171287 -->: Getting a bit colder (~5 degrees), much wind this week, a bit of rain here and there
- Monday
    <!-- skip this during MoI - 17:00 Knowledge sharing session, today's topic: *undecided* -->
    - 19:00 Women's choir [Janina, Lise, Mika]
    - 19:00 AcroYoga in Leipzig
- Tuesday
    - 16:00 - 18:00 Offener Dienstag [Janina, Nathalie] + Carla Cargo workshop continuation [Matthias, Tilmann]
- Wednesday
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
    - 20:15 Badminton in Wurzen
- Thursday
    - 10:00 Power Hour [All]
    - 15:00 sharing event
- Friday
    <!--- 12:00 Market pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993 -->
- Saturday
    - 13:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
- Sunday
    - 14:00 FFF meeting in cloud room
- Next Monday
    - CoMe facilitator: Thore
- to be scheduled:
    - MOI activities (Week overview: https://files.slack.com/files-pri/T0B6WCFM5-FSRKW5RPC/image.png)
- short next week overview

### 5. Announcements
- [janina] the sleeping session last Friday lead to a duvet distribution system that was implemented over the last three days. There will be revaluation of this in two weeks - until then, please don't move around duvets and leave them in their respective beds/rooms.
- [matthias] please add comments/problems you have with the duvet distribution to the thread in #kanthaus https://yunity.slack.com/archives/C3RS56Z38/p1582474336022000. All duvets have been inventorized and have an ID that is next to the size, best to be sheeted to be at the foot side. All rooms have a sheet at the door showing the list of available blankets.
- [lise] there is a lot of great food which needs to be washed! The brokoli needs to go today! And some bananas can be saved in freezer or cake.
- [bodhi] please take pic from carla workshop [lise will do]

### 6. Changes to Governance
- 

### 7. Expense Requests
- [matthias] 20€ to get some ventilation material to play around with (Lüftungsklappen)
  - no resistance
- [tilmann/bodhi/matthias] ~20€ for Druckknöpfe
  - The amazon kit you linked seems to be of not so good quality... I would prefer spending a bit more for good ones :-)
  - https://www.amazon.de/Prym-Love-Vario-Lochwerkzeug-colorsnapszeug/dp/B01F3UWWHU/ (plyers for 14€)
  - https://www.amazon.de/Prym-Jersey-Verschlüsse-Messing-Einheitsgröße/dp/B07HP88Y2Y (60 metal buttons for 17€)
  - [tilmann] I'm happy to let you do the buying
- [lise] 15€ for flour

### 8. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc.)
- [anja] since I'm gone for some time and left many seedlings around which need some care, I'd be happy if someone could reliably do that (they will result in awesome veggies and herbs!) (instructions are in the #kanthaus-garten channel)
  - lise can do
- [Thore] Which trees we want to plant in our garden and where is a good place for them. 
  - something edible! no cherry [janina,matthias]
  - ask again in #kanthaus-garden for favourite trees & space
  - Thore makes a survey on slack about the types and a proposal for spaces.
- [doug] I made some [calendar updates](https://yunity.slack.com/archives/C3RS56Z38/p1582398368007100?thread_ts=1582398328.007000&cid=C3RS56Z38)... any feedback?
    - natahlie feels that there is an information needed of what to put in which calendar
- [doug] Community experiment: fix sleeping places for one whole week (one room) to investigate impact. (Hypothesis: )
  - [chandi] strong resistance: It makes it even harder for less confident people (often female) to express there need for a private sleeping room.
  - [doug] this problem will exist anyway, would like to vizualise this difficulties and sees this meeting as a chance for it
      - [chandi] with the current "first-come-first-serve" system, you can just go into a room, even without approaching other people, so I don't think that it will exist anyway
  - [lise] we could have a meeting and we try to make people who have problems to ask for specific places raise their voice (e.g. they speak first, anonymous round of wishes,...)
  - [maxime] points out there would be a lot of other non-booked spaces for people to jump into.
  - Doug will propose something concrete and consult Lise/Chandi in the process. 
- [Thore] Buying a big proper touring bike for Kanthaus? Opinions?
    - [matthias] I think we don't have a big one (or even a big frame), do you need a bigger frame than all the currently half-working bikes have? We can (and should...) make more bikes nice
    - [janina] would a frame which is fitting for Thore also fit for other people?
    - [Matthias] thinking about Steffens bike, a bigger frame would fit smaller people as well
    - [janina] is interested in this merge of difficult topis (money & bikes)
    - No significant resistance in any way
    - Janina, Tilmann, Thore, Bodhi will discuss further
- [lise] Resistance against putting up a reservation sheet for the fansipan bed? Where to find the sheet?
    - no resistance, Chandi will take care & add it for the elephant room as well
    - [matthias] `kanthaus-public/topics/sleeping and closet/signs/personalRoomCurrentWeek.svg`
- [Bodhi] bad windows now in front of attic. get rid of them? who feels responsible?
    - Matthias will put them on ebay kleinanzeigen / Projectvernetzungsverteiler, but doesn't want to move them
    - sell them for any price but be honest about the U-Wert
- [Thore] Opinions about a Akademie planning meeting (6 people) from 12 - 14 June in Kanthaus. Especially because of roof-stuff...
    - [Tilmann] roof-team can't say anything to that, it's all very vague. We need to get a reply from Steffi, visit & report static-guy
    - [doug] say no meetings in may/june or say yes to meetings and be transparent that we might say no again
    - [janina] don't take any more events until july, because risk of annoyment for group which is here
    - [thore] will think about it, since its only 6 people
- [Doug] removing Pipes in k22? As in, maybe not!
  - and K20
  - [doug] have we critically thought about if we need the pipes in 10-20 years?
  - [matthias] we don't need it for our gas-usage
  - we are happy to cut out the pipes and if people want to use gas-flames, just use another device
  - please cut them in long pieces!

### 9. Dinner lottery/food recommendationabriss
Run lottery: https://kanthaus.gitlab.io/dinner-lottery/
<!-- Results to be copied on the physical board -->

### 10. For next week
- 
