---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2020-01-06"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. Link to Github https://github.com/kanthaus/kanthaus.online/tree/master/user/pages/40.governance/90.minutes (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Have fun!
-->
- Date: 2020-01-06
- Facilitator: Thore
- Notary: Tilmann, Janina, Maxime
- Physical board caretaker: Clara
- Present: Lise, Aggi, Clara, Maxime, Fionn, Tilmann, Janina, Mika, Matthias, Silvan, Thore, Nathalie, Stilgar

----
<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. Last week review

##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room (at the very end of the room on the right, up for the gas, down at your feet for the water) and append to water.csv and gas.csv in https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/tree/master/resourcesUsed, update the residence record (https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/blob/master/residenceRecord.csv) otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/pipeline_schedules and it will print to #kanthaus-residence -->
- Present: 12.9 people / day ⬈ +6.14
- Spent nights: 90 nights
- Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max): -0.6 | 4.8 | 9.2 °C (7 days before: -1.3 | 5.0 | 9.2 °C)
- Electricity usage: 5.28 € / day ⬈ +1.96 €
- Electricity efficiency: 41.1 ct / day*person ⬈ -8.44 ct
- Gas usage: 4.21 € / day ⬈ +1.44 €
- Gas efficiency: 32.7 ct / day*person ⬈ -8.53 ct
- Water usage: 3.29 € / day ⬈ +2.23 €
- Water efficiency: 25.6 ct / day*person ⬊ +9.82 ct


##### Done Expenses
<!-- Encourage people to enter their expenditures from Kanthaus money -->
- 0 Euro

##### Income
<!-- Check the shoe in K20-0 (base is 30 €) and the donation box in the free shop in K22-0-3 -->
<!-- Also list donated things (e.g. if somebody buys something from their personal money that can then be used in kanthaus) -->
- 0 Euro

##### Team updates
<!-- Project managers from teams defined during the MCM should report about the current situation -->
- Roof (Silvan, Tilmann):
    - Tilmann is making a flow chart of what needs to happen
    - A mail to poke the architect could be written again soon
- Stuff (Bodhi, Matthias, Thore, chandi): 
    - full inventory of stuff in the house and trying out the vortex of doom are next steps
- Rooms (Janina, Nathalie):
    - Walls are getting beautified in the futon room (There is no futon anymore, a new name is needed!)
        - lise will continue there and may give the room another / additional purpose. 
    - We want to hold another meeting soon! Maybe this week? :D
    
##### Things that happened
- New Year's Eve with racelette, games, and Klugi sauna
- the compost toilet was finally put into a usable state! you may now poop there! and an inauguration event happened there :)
- Tilmann built a plant shelf in the dining room
- Elephant and Hipster room now have Housebus & temperature sensors
- The dining room got rearranged and has a new big couch
- The brown couch moved into the piano room
- We tried a Sozialsauna event and the people participating really liked it
- Silvan brought lots of salad from Würzburg
- Anja brought lots of bread from Leipzig
- Retrospective of 2019 held by Janina, Tilmann, and help from Lise
- Clara made a new Power Hour board
- The CNC mill upgrades have now finally finished and there is a nice main power button mounted to the table :)
- The bathroom shelf got sorted by Lise
- Some people played Doppelkopf :)
- Forces of Evil were defeated in Andor

### 2. People arriving and leaving
- **Monday:** Antonin comes for a week, bodhi is in pödi for the day, findus comes back
- **Tuesday:** 
- **Wednesday:** chandi comes back
- **Thursday:** Franziska comes back
- **Friday:** Fionn, Aggi, and Q leave
- **Saturday:** Clara_FS comes for a week
- **Sunday:**
- **Any day:** Doug comes back


### 3. Evaluations and check-ins
- Clara Member : Absolute Days threshold 203/180
- Thore Member : Absolute Days threshold 208/180

### 4. Upcoming events <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Weather forecast <!-- https://www.accuweather.com/en/de/wurzen/04808/daily-weather-forecast/171287 -->: 
- Monday
    - 16:00 Knowledge sharing session: CNC mill [matthias, Q]
    <!-- - 19:00 Women's choir  -->
    <!-- - 19:00 AcroYoga in Leipzig -->
- Tuesday
    - 16:00 - 18:00 Offener Dienstag [Janina, Thore, Stilgar, Matthias prepares tea]
    - after dinner Mika sharing circle
- Wednesday
     - 12:00 Thore's evaluation [Matthias]
     - ~15:00 cake session
     - 17:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
    <!-- - 20:15 Badminton in Wurzen [] -->
- Thursday
    - 10:00 Power Hour [EVERYBODY]
    - 16:00 Sharing event []
    - 18:00 foodsharing Wurzen meeting
- Friday
    - 14:00 Le thé francophone [Maxime, Nathalie, Lise, Clara, Janina]
- Saturday
    - 12:00 move everything that's left in K22-2 staircase to K22 attic
    - 13:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
    - 16:00 Sozialsauna
- Sunday
    - Start of building week!
    - 11:00 foodsharing brunch
    - 15:00 FFF Meeting
    - after dinner sleeping plenum
- Next Monday
    - CoMe facilitator: Clara


### 5. Announcements
<!-- Information & things that "aren't debateable". Only clarifying questions -->
- [lise] Bodhi put stuff from intermediate storage in freeshop lounge, people could look through before opening on tuesday.
- [lise] Bodhi will make a tour to the Wertstoffhof to get rid of stuff

### 6. Changes to Governance
- ukuvote on Constitutional Change is now in voting phase of the binding vote.

### 7. Expense Requests
- [matthias] Isopropanol 20l ~40€

### 8. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc.)
- [janina] Sozialsauna last week was great! Let's have it again!
- [janina] There was the idea to try planned fixed sleeping spots for a week. The goal is to minimize confusion (Where can I sleep? Will I find my favorite blanket?), especially when many people are here. How about trying it during the building week?
    - [nathalie] building week starts on Sunday already, so we should have a Plenary of Sleeping Places then, I can facilitate it.
    - sleep survey: https://codi.kanthaus.online/room_survey
- [janina] Mika sharing circle - will it finally happen?
- [lise] Who will take care about needed material for the WuppWeek?
    - [bodhi] chandi comes back Wednesday probably. I would suggest having a material meeting Tuesday and then an ablauf [transalation?] and everything meeting when chandi is back? (chandi agrees) 
    - preparation pad: https://codi.kanthaus.online/wuppweak
- [bodhi] would like to do a sperrmüll and bauschutt tour this week. maybe tuesday or thursday? 1-2 people to join? loading action of all bauschutt in kmw and trailer before with as many people as like to join. (exercise!)
- [bodhi] stuff on the stairs to k22 attic is very annoying (silvan and doug?) especially since we need to go there more often during the building week maybe (material for windows, putting stuff fron the k20 attic there) can we find a solution / other place to store these things than on the staircase? external silvan storage /garage? meeting about this? 
    - [matthias] We also might like to tear down the roof plaster there, meaning a lot of dirt / area needs to be cleared
    - [nathalie] I will have a look at the lab equipment
    - [silvan] I will sort through my stuff there and would like to put the rest into the top bathroom's bathtub for the week.
    - [clara] I don't want the top bathroom to become cluttered...
    - [janina] Let's do a communal action to move everything that's left on Saturday noon intp the K22 attic. That way people can look at the stuff beforehand and move everything they want to have in specific locations. 

### 9. Dinner schedule
<!-- To be done on the physical board -->
- We're back to doing the lottery, yay! :D

### 10. For next week

- [toBeScheduled] Revolution Knowledge Presentation [findus]
- on tuesday there is a court case in Leipzig (climate camp 2018)

