---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2019-09-30"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Have fun!
-->

- Date: 2019-09-30
- Facilitator: Janina
- Notary:
- Physical board caretaker: Bodhi
- Present: Bodhi, Lise, Q, Findus, Tilmann, Matthias, Chandi, Silvan, Maxime

----
<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- **Monday:** Lise and Q leave
- **Tuesday:** Tobi briefly visits
- **Wednesday:** Findus leaves
- **Thursday:** 
- **Friday:** Nathalie and Thore come back and bring Thore's parents, Silvan leaves
- **Saturday:** Bodhi, Matthias and Clara leaves with KMW
- **Sunday:**
- **Undefineday:** chandi leaves

### 2. Changes to Governance
- none

### 3. Last week review

##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room and append to water.csv and gas.csv in https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/tree/master/resourcesUsed, update the residence record (https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/blob/master/residenceRecord.csv) otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/pipeline_schedules and it will print to #kanthaus-residence -->

- Present: 11.1 people / day ⬊  0.0
- Spent nights: 78 nights
- Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max): 13.4 | 17.3 | 22.1 °C (7 days before: 7.9 | 13.7 | 22.9 °C)
- Electricity usage: 3.8 € / day ⬈ +0.35 €
- Electricity efficiency: 34.1 ct / day*person ⬊ +3.16 ct
- Solar intake: 0.86 € / day
- Water usage: 2.19 € / day ⬊ -0.09 €
- Water efficiency: 19.6 ct / day*person ⬈ -0.85 ct

##### Income
- 4,35€

##### MCM updates
<!-- Project managers from tasks defined during the MCM should report about the current situation -->
- Roof (Silvan, Tilmann): 
    - upcoming preparations (see below)
    - Corina will visit on 8.10. 13:00 for a further meeting to plan the next steps.
- Stuff (Bodhi, Matthias, Thore):
    - no meeting, but unstructured practical things happening
    - a carload of stuff was gotten rid of at junkyard
    - brief chat about inventory system between Bodhi and Chandi
- Rooms (Janina, Nathalie):
    - first meeting to get overview of existing ideas (see Nathalie's notes)
    - hipster room meeting and catching up with Findus, Chandi and Clara
    - thoughts about process of decision-making vs. doocracy


##### Things that happened
- We celebrated our first Sommerfest with ~40 people, disco soup, live music, fire and fancy lights! :D
- One day before we put a lot of energy into making the house look nice (tidy up rooms, get rid of crap).
- Lise and Silvan saved a lot of food from the food bank in Grimma and established good contact to them.
- Silvan went to the Kulturjurte thing in Leipzig and gave a workshop about wooden rings.
- Tilmann put a lot of stickers on electronic devices that show their (standby) electricity usage.
- Tilmann, Clara, Findus and Chandi worked more on the hipster room, so that it already contains some furniture now.
- Matthias reorganized the bicycle shed which now provides space to easily access 10 bicycles and store up to 6 additional ones
- We have a new, bigger and more silent washing machine which currently only works on tap water.
 
### 4. Evaluations and check-ins
- none

### 5. Upcoming <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Weather forecast <!-- https://www.accuweather.com/en/de/wurzen/04808/weather-forecast/171287 -->: Rainy and windy until Wednesday, then dryer and calmer
- Monday
    - 19:00 Women's choir
- Tuesday
    - rest waste
    - 16:00 - 18:00 Offener Dienstag [Janina, Silvan]
- Wednesday
    - 10:00 - 12:00 WuppHours
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt via foodsharing.de https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=18626
- Thursday
    - 10:00 Power Hour
    - 17:30 Sharing event (cloud room) 
- Friday
    - 12:00 Market pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt via foodsharing.de https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=18626
- Saturday
- Sunday
- Next Monday
    - CoMe facilitator: Maxime

#### To schedule

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, updates, requests, etc.)
- BUND wurzen, who feels associated? Meeting!
    - meeting makes more sense when Lise is here as well
    - Bodhi and Janina feel a bit associated but are not super motivated to do BUND actions, not sure how to go about this
- utopival meeting 29.11-01.12
    - would be around 15 additional people
    - yoga room would make sense to use
    - people are happy to have it here, Findus acts as host
- putting used laundry in the communal closet..?
    - [findus] we don't have a space for used clothes that can be reworn
    - [bodhi] we tried and it didn't work, same for harzgerode
    - [clara] I didn't know, can't we try again?
    - [janina] we could use some of the clothes hangers in the hallway
    - [findus] I'll make a sign
    - [matthias] So that means no worn clothes go back into the closet
- Herzaufstand Messe
    - http://herzaufstand.de/en/, 29.11.-1.12.19 in Berlin
    - we were asked to participate, Lise and Nathalie were interested but probably won't find the time
    - [Nathalie] I will be in Darmstadt on that weekend. I had a phone call with Jennifer and the idea is to present Kanthaus on saturday 10 -17 (Stand/ Ausstellung). If nobody wants to take over I'd write to her that we won't take part so they can go on with the planning process.
    - Silvan might be interested in doing this with Lise for example. He will communicate with Lise and Nathalie.
- [matthias] keeping kanthaus warm
    - try to keep windows closed by default and only open them fully to get fresh air inside.
- [matthias] bicycle shed introduction
    - meet at the bike shed after come (11:10)
- [matthias] lend scaffolding to the friends of clara for jointing
    - logistics questions: building it down, transporting it, building it up again
    - [bodhi] they should rent a bigger car and give it back in Leipzig, because ours is too small
    - [tilmann] we should build it down before winter, but it's not urgent so far - it depends on how motivated people are to put work into this. also it would not be cool if they keep it up for all winter.
    - [chandi] seems there's no general resistance but we need more info if/how it makes sense.
    - [silvan] what kind of house project is it? do they do cool projects or just live there? motivation depends on this.
    - [clara] they do community projects like cinema and parties - classic Leipzig house project style.
    - [bodhi] they should also come here for the tear-down part, get a really thorough introduction and learn how to handle it.
- [tilmann] K22 water installation this week -> water there will be unusable for at least some days
    - Reason: The pipes are rusty and the food storage needs to be disconnected.
    - Matthias is motivated to start today.
    - There's different options how to do it exactly. We could have a meeting about that before starting.
- [tilmann] roof preparation work
    - partial teardown of K20 chimney: could be wupphour this week, depends on the weather
    - empty psychedelic room: individual people could go through their stuff soon
- [silvan] When you open closet doors in the communal closet, please close them afterwards. It is very annoying if you want to reach the space behind and often there is one door open and needs to be closed.
- [silvan] the silent office seems to be not silent enough, so that some people (Thore, Clara e.g.) don't want to work there, even though they have the need of a silent working place, how to deal with that?
    - [janina] we - the room team - thought about collecting needs for office spaces again in more detail to find out how to accomodate everyone the best. having one _actually_ silent office is already part of that plan.
- [corinna] "Noch eine Sache, ich habe heute den Schlüssel für die Goethestraße 27 bekommen. Dort steht noch ein Sofa und weitere Sachen (Kühlschrank, Herd ...) die ihr gerne haben könnt. Wegen dem Sofa hatte mich schon mal irgendjemand von euch angesprochen, da hatte ich aber noch keinen Schlüssel. Wenn ihr Lust habt, könnten wir am 08.10. mal durchs Haus gehen und ihr schaut, was ihr haben wollt. Also gerne weitergeben, die Info." - Who wants to answer and take care of this?
    - [janina] I can go there and takes measures and pictures. Maybe Nathalie and Thore can come, too? :3
    - [bodhi] I'll write to Corinna again
- [janina] buying peanuts 
- [maxime] rain water taps? in the lower staircase toilet it wasn't clear for me if only the toilet flushes with rainwater of if the tab also gave rain water.
- [matthias] to get a new MDV ticket is approximately 200-230€ per month for a 12 month contract depending on the zones we want. This ticket can be used by anybody. additionally from 17pm-4am and on weekends two people can go together.

### 7. Water/Dinner lottery


### 8. For next week
