---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2019-02-11"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Please indent list points with a double-space, not a tab-space: the pad has a bug when rendering markdown, adding extra lines. The resulting web-page looks spacey... not in a good way.
  - Have fun!
-->

- Date: 2019-02-11
- Facilitator: chandi
- Notary: Janina
- Present: Doug, Clara, Matthias, Larissa, Nick, Tilmann, Lise, Bodhi, Chandi, Janina, Laurina

----
<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. People arriving and leaving
- **Monday:** Nick's parents pop in
- **Tuesday:** Larissa leaves, Nathalie and Thore come back 14.00 (our plans changed ;)
- **Wednesday:** 
- **Thursday:** 
- **Friday:** fsde board people come (7 in total, maybe some on Saturday), Lise and Bodhi leave for two weeks, Laurina leaves
- **Saturday:** Butze comes, fsde hackweek people..?
- **Sunday:** 
- **Monday:** 

### 2. Changes to Governance
none

### 3. Last week review 
##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room and append to water.csv and gas.csv in https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/tree/master/resourcesUsed, otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/pipeline_schedules and it will print to #kanthaus-residence -->
- *Present:* 11.0 people / day _⬊  0.71 people ≙ 6 %_
- *Spent nights:* 77 nights
- *Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max):* -0.8 | 4.5 | 11.3 °C _(7 days before: -1.2 | 2.0 | 6.1 °C)_
- *Electricity usage:* 4.79 € / day _⬊ 4 %_
- *Electricity efficiency:* 43.5 ct / day*person _⬊ 3 %_
- *Gas usage:* 4.79 € / day _⬊ 6 %_
- *Gas efficiency:* 46.3 ct / day*person _⬈ +0 %_
- *Water usage:* 4.79 € / day _⬊ 1 %_
- *Water efficiency:* 18.6 ct / day*person _⬊ 5 %_



##### Income (please check the shoe and the box): 
no shoe (again?)

##### Things that happened
- Luisa came by and facilitated a long and fruitful money session
- Nick hosted the first grafana/influxdb/python scripting session
- Silvan shared his knowledge of the CNC mill
- We held a baby-themed sharing event
- There was quite a lot of sunshine and an improbable amount of walks in it
- Laurina painted the sleep kitchen
- We bought a scaffolding and almost got it delivered
- Nick's parents came visiting and his mom found it way more cozy than she had anticipated
- Clara came back from a week of political activity
- We had a foodsharing leftovers brunch with no external but a lot of internal participants
- Silvan fixed Ilona's bike
- James published his Kanthaus article on medium ([read here](https://medium.com/@jamesmoulding/kanthaus-the-new-home-of-the-food-waste-fightback-2e6cbf9c9a29))
- Lise and Nathalie changed all the sheets in K20 beds
- Nathalie did her first ever haircut on Lise and it looks fine
- Matthias and Thore did a soldering session
- Matthias did the first silicone molding with CNC milled wooden forms
- chandi finally got the 3d printer running! :)

### 4. Evaluations and check-ins
- *Michal* _Visitor_ : 1 days until _Days Visited_ threshold (21)

### 5. Upcoming <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Weather forecast: dry, getting sunny and over 10 degrees for the weekend (solar power, yay!)
- Monday
    - 19:00 Women's choir 
    - 19:00 AcroYoga
- Tuesday
    - 19:00 Fairteiler [Janina]
- Wednesday


- Thursday
    - 16:00 Sharing event [maybe Clara or chandi]
    - 19:00 foodsharing Wurzen meeting
- Friday
    - 14:00 Month of Calm Retrospective
    - Cleaning-Party @ Pödelwitz
    - Fridays For Future
    - month of calm ends
- Saturday
    - foodsharing hackweek starts
    - fs.de board meeting starts
    - Scaffolding being delivered (13.00), 14m of parking space need to be reserved
- Sunday
    - fs.de board meeting ends
- Next Monday
  - CoMe facilitator: Tilmann

### 6. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, updates, requests, etc) <!-- can also include discussions about cooking and heating -->
- room situation during hackweek/ board meeting
    - cloud room: board meeting
    - 1 heated private sleeping room: board meeting
        - Doug proposes the Futon room because it has up to 5 sleeping spaces
        - Janina will inquire if the private room needs to be for one person only or if it can be shared with people from the board meeting group
    - have a sleeping space meeting with everybody involved in Friday
    - Doug will make a list of all available sleeping spaces to then find out how to distribute
- [janina] food situation for fsde board meeting: elena asked if we can take care of it. she also offered twice to pay some kind of aufwandsentschädigung for the service. because of their tight schedule they can't really help cooking and because they all come by train they can't really bring a lot of food.
    - [doug] I think we want to offer that and I'm willing to help with the work
    - [janina] Mee too
    - [doug] About the money: We can still figure that out. I have some ideas generally. Of course we accept donations as usual.
    - Janina and Doug will meet outside CoMe to come up with a plan.
- [tilmann] concerns about huge amounts of lithium batteries in office, could use some risk reduction (e.g. move to basement?)
  - [doug] Hotfix: mount spare fire alarm directly above stack
  - [matthias] If it burns that won't help much...
  - [tilmann] I have resistance to having the block inside for longer than a month.
  - There will be a meeting for solutions outside of CoMe. chandi, Tilmann, Bodhi and maybe Matthias are interested.
- [doug]. Pad. Scrolling a bit jumpy. 
  - [tilmann] usability on phone is worse than etherpad: slow, jumps, big font
  - Seems to be a phone problem. We can try other pads and find the one that we love... :3
- [matthias] Roof planning session (architect? Static analysis?)
    - [bodhi] Right! I wanted to contact Corinna but didn't. Will do.
    - [tilmann] Another roof session this week would be useful.
- [matthias] food storage renovation: Getting more sand, finding a source for cheaper lime
    - 15km in the direction of Riesa (Sachsendorf) there's sand - maybe we want to get other things from around, too?
    - We need to go there soon, since we can't finish replastering the food storage without getting more material.
- [doug] I'd like to have a clear hall policy, which means that no stuff should be left in the entrance area of K20. It could be that whatever is left there for longer than a day can be moved by other people.
    - [clara] Would also be helpful for K22.
    - [matthias] Should I make the chalk lines I had made on the floor again and this time more permanent?
    - [clara] Oh please no, it looks so restrictive and horrible! Let's just not put stuff there...
    - [doug] Maybe we can just try it without and if it doesn't work we wan always try something else.
    - [janina] If there are things in the middle of the room just kick them out of the way. Also the shoes which are lying around next to the pieces of furniture they actually belong in...
- [Bodhi] We have boxes for personal stuff /unfinished projecs in workshop now. Please feel free to use them! Plase don't leave your stuff on the tables in the workshop!

### 7. For next week
-