---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2020-01-12"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. Link to Github https://github.com/kanthaus/kanthaus.online/tree/master/user/pages/40.governance/90.minutes file name: Date_CoMe/item.md, example: 2020-01-06_CoMe/item.md, copy minutes from the "Bearbeiten Modus", check in the preview mode on github if everything is correct. (If you still don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Have fun!
-->
- Date: 2020-01-12
- Facilitator: Doug
- Notary: Matthias, Bodhi
- Physical board caretaker: Lise
- Present: Unkraut, Doug, Tilmann, Mika, Antonin, Lise, Bodhi, Nathalie, Thore, Clara_FS, Matthias, Felix, Stilgar

----
<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. Last week review

##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room (at the very end of the room on the right, up for the gas, down at your feet for the water) and append to water.csv and gas.csv in https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-public/tree/master/resourcesUsed, update the residence record (https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/blob/master/residenceRecord.csv) otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/pipeline_schedules and it will print to #kanthaus-residence -->
- Present: 12.9 people / day ⬈ +6.14
- Spent nights: 90 nights
- Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max): -0.6 | 4.8 | 9.2 °C (7 days before: -1.3 | 5.0 | 9.2 °C)
- Electricity usage: 5.28 € / day ⬈ +1.96 €
- Electricity efficiency: 41.1 ct / day*person ⬈ -8.44 ct
- Gas usage: 4.21 € / day ⬈ +1.44 €
- Gas efficiency: 32.7 ct / day*person ⬈ -8.53 ct
- Water usage: 3.29 € / day ⬈ +2.23 €
- Water efficiency: 25.6 ct / day*person ⬊ +9.82 ct

##### Done Expenses
<!-- Encourage people to enter their expenditures from Kanthaus money -->
- 74.38 € for 20 l ethanol / 20l isopropanol
- 305 € for cable winch

##### Income
<!-- Check the shoe in K20-0 (base is 30 €) and the donation box in the free shop in K22-0-3 -->
<!-- Also list donated things (e.g. if somebody buys something from their personal money that can then be used in kanthaus) -->
- €20 (shoe)
- €75 (Pfand)

##### Team updates
<!-- Project managers from teams defined during the MCM should report about the current situation -->
- Roof (Silvan, Tilmann):
    - Rough task overview posted in #kanthaus-dach https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/dach
    - Corinna sent us an invoice
- Stuff (Bodhi, Matthias, Thore, chandi): 
- Rooms (Janina, Nathalie):
- Texte, Themen und Strukturen Team (Lise, Janina): 
    - will come up with a proposal for sozialsauna in the future
    
##### Things that happened
- k20 basement door repaired
- Lots of Bauwoche prep
- Sozialsauna with 11 members & volunteers
- High bed, new couch & red wall in the Forest/Futon Room/Office
- Spice-sorting and pepper-tasting by bodhi
- New season sorted in the long-lasting food storage
- Fixed multimeter in electronics workshop

### 2. People arriving and leaving
- Lots of people in both directions. Check 'people' calendar and bauwoche poll for details. https://cloud.livingutopia.org/apps/polls/poll/vDdDFFvIrpsa8qBX
- **Monday:** 
- **Tuesday:** 
- **Wednesday:** 
- **Thursday:** 
- **Friday:** 
- **Saturday:** 
- **Sunday:**
- **Any day:**

### 3. Evaluations and check-ins
- Clara
- Franziska?

### 4. Upcoming events <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Weather forecast <!-- https://www.accuweather.com/en/de/wurzen/04808/daily-weather-forecast/171287 -->: 
- Sunday
    - 17:00 Building week starting plenary in piano room with sleeping plenary and overview
- Monday
    <!-- - 16:00 Knowledge sharing session: -->
    <!-- - 19:00 Women's choir  -->
    <!-- - 19:00 AcroYoga in Leipzig -->
- Tuesday
    - Black bin emptying
    - 16:00 - 18:00 Offener Dienstag []
- Wednesday
    - 17:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993 (Ask VK?)
    <!-- - 20:15 Badminton in Wurzen [] -->
- Thursday
   <!-- - 16:00 Sharing event [] (Cancel?) -->
- Friday
- Saturday
    - 13:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993 (Ask VK?)
    - ~14:00 Power Hours (After Lunch) [All requested!] 
- Sunday
    - 15:00 FFF Meeting
- Next Monday
    - CoMe facilitator: Bodhi


### 5. Announcements
<!-- Information & things that "aren't debateable". Only clarifying questions -->
- Lise will call Tafel Monday
- Tuesday at 14:00 courtcase in Leipzig
- Tuesday 16-20:00 opening krimZkrams Wurzen (@ Der Laden)
- If no one puts a notice about the Month of Calm on the 'Besuchen' page https://kanthaus.online/de/about/visiting, I will do it as best I can, when I can (Doug)
- 18.01.2020: Wir haben es satt Demo (Nathore & Clara_FS will go for Saturday, a train ticket has available seats)

### 6. Changes to Governance
- Ukuvota on 'age of independence' round 2 ends tomorrow https://ukuvota.world/#/app/39572ed0-3969-5c2d-aec7-16f39758ea95/vote So far only Doug voted.

### 7. Expense Requests

### 8. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc.)
- [lise] rooms heated by default, which ones? I was just wondering how quick there was the "decision" to heat the piano room by default and letting the kitchen be the coldest / not-heated room in this floor. How about just heating the whole living floor then^^?
    - Current situation: Heated by default are offices in use, living room, kitchen, snack kitchen, bathroom
    - Problem: Is e.g. piano room now heated by default? If not, we should turn it off in the evening
    - How do people feel about this?
    - We will not heat it by default, people can just turn the radiator on when they want to use the room. 
    - Further discussion about starting temperature moved online (slack)
- [Bodhi] Wall stones from the psy-room teardown. Will put them on ebay kleinanzeigen. If noone wants them: store them or drive them to wertstoffhof?
   - [Tilmann] it's a lot of work to drive all of them away, so if they are not super shitty and can be stacked, then we should do it
   - [Matthias] they might not come off the wall in very good condition and stacking is also quite a lot of work
   - [bodhi] we are also enough people to bring them away
   - tilmann, bodhi and matthias have the strongest opinions, they'll decide
- [janina, lise] mailverteiler for kanthaus-interested people would be great
    - chandi would like to help after bauwoche, give him the mailadresses
- [lise] Jörg Wunderlich asked if he can visit us during MOI....concers, resistance?
    - [doug] social, or recording?
    - will always be recording :-)
    - Would be an exception to the month of introspection rules.
    - [doug, nathalie] would be okay with that because it would only be for a few hours and we know beforehand
    - Lise will ask his expectations and will answer him 
- [Doug] Proposal: no evaluations during Month of Introspection.
    - to free up time for other things
    - maybe check number and prepone some?
    - Tilmann will check how many evaluations there actually would be
    - nobody has a strong opinion
    - [Nathalie] will post the pad for MOI again
- [Bodhi] Staircases will be dusty during the building week. This means: 
    - backpacks in backpack storare need to go if they should not get dusty -> there is space in the interm. storage. or in the sleeping rooms (if we have fixed ones for the week anyway?!). 
    - for other things in the staircase its probably fine. otherwise will take action then, I already have ideas :)
 - Power hour on Thursday doesn't make sense.
     - Saturday @ 13:00, 4
     - saturday @ 15:00, 4
     - saturday @ 16:00, many
     - "no resistance to doing it after lunch"

### 9. Dinner schedule
<!-- To be done on the physical board -->

### 10. For next week

- [toBeScheduled] Revolution Knowledge Presentation [findus]

