---
title: Coordination Meeting
date: "2020-03-02"
taxonomy:
    tag: [come]
---

<!--
Hello facilitator/notary! Thank you for your services. Here is some advice for facilitating coordination meetings:
  - Prepare the meeting a bit beforehand (find out about evaluations, gas, electricity and water usages, waste collections, income, scheduled events). You can ask others to assist you.
  - Notify people 10 minutes before the meeting starts. (Watching the clock is not super fun, people will be grateful if you do it for them.)
  - Start at 10:00 sharp, or earlier if everyone is there. (Waiting is time-wasting, be a time-saver!)
  - If you don't want to take notes yourself ask someone else to take care of that. (This pad can easily be used to read from and write in simultaneously.)
  - Go through the ordered points in order, even if nothing has changed. (They are arranged to try and get the most relevant information to most people.)
  - Feel welcome to moderate conversation if off-topic or too detailed. (Are listeners interested? Are speakers satisfied? Can you identify a sub-group?)
  - Try to finish the meeting before 11:00. (There is always more to talk about and it's important for people to know that CoMes don't take forever.)
  - Leave the room once the meeting has ended. (This sends a clear signal to everyone else that they can also leave and get on with their day.)
  - Take care that the meeting minutes will be put to kanthaus.online. (If you don't know how to do it, ask someone to help you with it. But do it today!)
  - As soon as the minutes are online, post the link to the #Kanthaus channel on slack and empty the pad from all irrelevant things and get it ready for the next facilitator. (Only keep regular events such as CoMe, power hour, regular food pickups and such. Move the counter figures from 'last 7 days' to '7 days before that' and adjust the date to next week.)
  - Have fun!
-->
- Date: 2020-03-02
- Facilitator: Thore
- Notary: Matthias
- Physical board caretaker: Lise
- Digital calendar caretaker: Doug
- Discussion timekeeper: Thore 
- Present: Doug, Nathalie, Thore, Mika, Lise, Tilmann, Bodhi, Janina, Matthias, Silvan, Maxime

----

<!-- 0. Minute of silence -->

### 1. Last week review

##### Stats
<!-- Read counters in heating room and append to water.csv in https://cloud.kanthaus.online/f/146415, update the residence record (https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-private/blob/master/residenceRecord.csv) otherwise the script will complain -->
<!-- press the play button on https://gitlab.com/kanthaus/kanthaus-governance/pipeline_schedules and it will print to 
#kanthaus-residence -->

![usage graph](https://codi.kanthaus.online/uploads/upload_fd32e963f28b20a43055242ceff283f5.png)

- **Present:** 13.1 people / day ⬊  -2.0
- **Spent nights:** 92 nights
- **Outdoor temperature (min|avg|max):** 7 °C _(1.7 | 6.5 | 12.7 days before: 2.7 | 7.8 | 13.6 °C)_
- **Electricity usage:** 6.74 € / day _⬊ -0.69 €_
- **Electricity efficiency:** 51.3 ct / day*person _⬊ +2.2 ct_

Gas and water are broken

##### Done Expenses
<!-- Encourage people to enter their expenditures from Kanthaus money -->
- 8€ for flour
- 26€ for some ventilation stuff

##### Income
<!-- Check the shoe in K20-0 (base is 20 €) and the donation box in the free shop in K22-0-3 -->
- 350€ 


##### Team updates
<!-- Project managers from teams defined during the MCM should report about the current situation -->
- Roof (Silvan, Tilmann): 
  - another roof window bought
  - building week planning today 11:15
  1. [ ] Reply from architect [Silvan]
  2. [ ] Visit from Statiker
  3. [ ] Report from Statiker
- Stuff (Bodhi, Matthias, Thore, Chandi):
  - shelf inbetween the workshops becomes vortex-like for sorting & repairing (longer phases) + a bit of storage
  - Freeshop Box from sleeping hallway were removed and added to vortex as well
- Rooms (Nathalie, Janina):
  - ex-intermediate has a non-finished highbed now and is nearly progressed to a nice vortex/sorting/storage room

##### Other things that happened
- MoI ended and we had a retrospective session composed of reflection (what was good?, what worked not so well?), highlights and ideas for next year. 
- Max visited us over the weekend for a pen & paper game
- Carla Cargo frame progressed
- lots of onions prepared & even more in da house
- fasting day for 38 hours
- Kite flying at Spitzberg
- Kanthaus-Server runs debian now & has encrypted harddisks
- Fansipan bed mattress was molding and is in the progress of being fixed & usable again
- Shower hose exchanged

### 2. People arriving and leaving
- **Monday:** 
- **Tuesday:** 
- **Wednesday:** 
- **Thursday:** Bodhi & Silvan leave
- **Friday:** Nathalie leaves
- **Saturday:** Bodhi comes back very late, Anja comes (probably with bread)
- **Sunday:** Nathalie comes back
- **Any day:** Silvan comes back
 
### 3. Evaluations and Check-ins!

Due for evaluation (and seen within the last 7 days):
- Anja Volunteer : Absolute Days threshold 112/60
- Janina Member : Absolute Days threshold 187/180

Due for evaluation soon (in the next 7 days, and seen within the last 7 days):
- Bodhi Member : 0 days until Absolute Days threshold (180)
- Lise Member : 0 days until Absolute Days threshold (180)

### 4. Upcoming <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/apps/calendar/ -->
- Weather forecast <!-- https://www.accuweather.com/en/de/wurzen/04808/weather-forecast/171287 -->: Less windy, less wet (from Wednesday on); a bit of clouds and sun, 0-10 degrees.
- Monday
  - 11:15 Building week planning
  - 17:00 Knowledge sharing session, today's topic: Backups (Using borgbackup & vorta; Linux only, but also some general background info) [Matthias] <!-- https://cloud.kanthaus.online/f/151678 -->
  - 19:00 Women's choir [Janina, Lise]
  - 19:00 AcroYoga in Leipzig
  - 21:00 Hart aber Fair
- Tuesday
  - 11:00 Janinas Evaluation
  - 16:00 - 18:00 Offener Dienstag [Unkraut, Janina, Nathalie, Thore] + Carla Cargo workshop continuation [Tilmann, Matthias]
- Wednesday
  - 11:00 Private stuff
  - 16:00 Stadtfonds-Sitzung [Nathalie, Janina]
  - 17:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
  - 20:15 Badminton in Wurzen
- Thursday
  - 10:00 Power Hour [All]
  - 15:00 Social sauna OR sharing event [lise]
- Friday
  - 12:00 Market pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
- Saturday
  - 13:30 Landgut Nemt pickup via foodsharing.de: https://beta.foodsharing.de/?page=fsbetrieb&id=20993
- Sunday
  - 11:00 - 13:00 foodsharing brunch 
  - 14:00 FFF meeting in cloud room
- Next Monday
  - CoMe facilitator: Doug
- to be scheduled:
  - World Disco Soup Day planning [small group]

- short next week overview

### 5. Announcements
- [Janina] We'll restart the project updates! Similar format to what we had before, but limited slots and 10 minutes max presentation per person participating. There is a sheet with questions to help you find out what you can say. We're looking for presenters for the week after this one, please approach me if you're interested! 
- [Lise] There is a sheet to collect proposals for knowledge-sharing-sessions: https://cloud.kanthaus.online/f/151678 
- [Doug] Month of introspection ending meeting notes: https://codi.kanthaus.online/2020_MOI_review?both Added to calendar as reminder on mon. 26 Oct.
- [Lise] Flat-warming at Cille and Vince place on 04.04.2020! Invitation will come soon.
- [Tilmann] Intermediate storage room is usable, but bed is not finished yet. Looking for a place to put all empty buckets - ideas welcome!
- [Doug] Printer page Update... https://handbook.kanthaus.online/technical/printing.html
- [Maxime] New propositions were added to the Kanthaus movie wishlist and are waiting for your enthusiastic backing and scheduling propositions

### 6. Changes to Governance
- 

### 7. Expense Requests
- [Matthias] Messchieber for 14€ https://www.paulimot.de/messen-pruefen/messschieber/analog/401/messschieber-schieblehre-150-mm-inox
- [Matthias] Gewindelehre for 5€ https://www.paulimot.de/messen-pruefen/lehren/gewindelehren/851/gewindelehre-metrisch/zoll-aus-federstahl
- [Bodhi] Schleiflehre for 3,50€ https://www.paulimot.de/universal-schleiflehre/120/90/60/55
- [Matthias] Fillup with https://www.paulimot.de/fuehlerlehren-satz-20-blatt,-0,05-1,00-mm for 3,50€ to safe shipping cost
- [Doug] 12€ for 20 'Lifetime' washing pegs
- all accepted :-)

### 8. Discussion (e.g. questions, proposals, etc.)
- [Lise] who is interested in having a bike trip to jahnishausen? we thought about going there around March 12th. More in kh-going out
  - Small group will fix a day
  - Doug does a sheet for bike selection
- [Janina] We opened up a lot of governance topics during MoI and I'd like to start some ukuvotes on actual changes to our documents soon. 
  - Confusing sozialsauna ukuvota... doug
    - [Doug] New communal expectation without a formal process/collective decision
    - [Tilmann] phrasing: This ukuvota is more an opinion than a decision one
    - Ukuvote will define the next social sauna, from there we'll progress with a possible collective agreements change
  - Who is interested in participating in drafting the phrasings?
  - How are you feeling about having multiple e.g. Constitutional Changes simultaneously so that every aspect has its own ukuvote? This would mean to avoid the explosion of proposal numbers.
  - [Doug] I observe that you (Janina) were fairly responsible for _initiating_ the opening of many topics ;p Now that we've opened them, it's up to us to deal with the result. I am interesting in working properly on one thing at a time. I have moderate resistance to having simultaneous or multi-option decision ukuvotas. (Which means we should start one soon!) I propose that all the people who were involved in any gov session to have a quick meeting after CoMe to decide which topic first, then find a 2-3 person working group for it.
- [Doug] Did everyone read the stuff proposal? Would put to vote in volMem channel.
  - Meeting on that before we progress. Wednesday, 11.00
- [Janina] Visitors: next week, inter-hackweek days
  - Individual decisions
  - Nice to have advanced notification, also put it in the calendar
- Move meeting on this weekend
  - Unclear communication. There was an informal question in slack weeks ago but no confirmation
  - Apparently, the move team thinks it happens and will come with 6-10 people
  - We try to clarify with Chandi when he is here again
- [Silvan] Can the new Auerworld Sonnensegel be stored here?
  - A storage & sharing conditions proposal will follow, decision is not urgent

### 9. Dinner lottery/food recommendationabriss
Run lottery: https://kanthaus.gitlab.io/dinner-lottery/
<!-- Results to be copied on the physical board -->

### 10. For next week
- [Doug] Check result of bike survey for Janishausen https://codi.kanthaus.online/bikeTripJanishausen?both Select who goes if there's not enough bikes/select bikes to repair.
